---
layout: post
title: "New release: usbguard-0.2 & usbguard-applet-qt-0.2"
author: Daniel Kopeček <dkopecek@redhat.com>
date: 2015-04-03 19:30:59+02:00
tags: [release notes, usbguard]
comments: true
sitemap:
  lastmod: 2015-04-03 19:30:59+02:00
  priority: 0.5
  changefreq: monthly
  exclude: 'no'
---

I'm happy to announce that a new release of usbguard and usbguard-applet-qt is now available.
There's still a long way to go to a production-ready release, mainly because there aren't any
CLI tools available yet and also because the IPC authentication isn't implemented, but at least
it's a bit closer now.

The rule language received a significant improvement and you can read the updated documentation
[here](https://usbguard.github.io/documentation/rule-language.html).

# Major changes
 * Support for modifying permanent rules over the IPC interface.
 * Reworked device hashing.
 * Rule language changes
   * set operators
   * renamed "port" to "via-port"
   * added "with-interface" matching attribute
   * removed the "class" attribute
 * The IPCClient, ConfigFile, Rule and RuleSet classes are now shipped in a shared library.
 * Created abstract interface for OS specific USB device handling.
 * Changed default daemon config path to /etc/usbguard/usbguard-daemon.conf.
 * Implemented basic USB descriptor structure parsing and improved interface type handling
 * The IPC API was changed:
  * added new signal, DevicePresent, which signals that a device was already present at the start of the IPC session
  * the DeviceInserted and DevicePresent signals pass interface types that the device supports
  * the explicit string arguments of the signals are now passed as a map
 * Resolved issues: #1 #2 #5 #6 #10 #11 

# Updating

Note that the rule language syntax changed. USBGuard no longer recognizes the "class" attribute, which was removed, and the "port" attribute, which was renamed to "via-port".

If you are using the USBGuard Copr repository, run:

    $ sudo yum update usbguard usbguard-applet-qt

